Aerugo, nocturnal moth-folk

Alone, the young traveler was camping in the'''woods at night, keeping watch for the savagebeasts that roamed that forest. But instead offangs or claws, the only thing that approachedhim were some dustballs of a silk-like material.He looked up, searching for their caster, and itdidn't take long for him to recognize a white,humanoid figure, sitting above his little camp on a treebranch. She was weaving some kind of silky cloth, whilegazing at his campfire, and not minding anything elsesurrounding her.

Descendents of Fey Spirits

The Aerugo are a race of humanoid moth-like people,characterized mainly by the presence of a second smallerpair of arms, a layer of thin fur covering most of their body(usually either gray or white, but it can sometimes be brownor even dark blue) , a pair of moth wings and two antennasprotruding from their forhead.

It is said that this moth-folk was the product of the fantasyof a moony Archfey, who created them to populate the nightsof the material plane, and dress them with silk-like ribbonsthat gleam under the light of the moon.

According to some others, Aerugo where created by thepower of an ancient magic, that trapped some fey spirits intothe bodies of this moth-like people. Wheter it was meant as acurse, so that they would be unnaturally attracted by lights, oras a blessing, giving them elegance and a real gift for weaving(or neither of them) is unknown.

Welcoming but "Inhospitable" Societies

Aerugo tend to form small communities in forest, usually inmild or cold regions, composed almost only by their kin. Thisisn't because of some kind of shyness, nor because they don'trespect other races: in fact, aerugo love company, and oftentravel to nearby settlements to exchange goods or gatherrumors about the rest of the world. The main reason whyhumans and other races don't stop for long in aerugo villagesis because of the many quirks of this people: the main onesbeing the fact that they are active almost only at night, andthat it is forbidden to light torches or lanterns inside theirvillages. Also, many aerugo structures are built high amidsttree branches, which makes it quite challenging for manycommon folk to reach them.

Aerugo settlements often elect a king or queen as theirleader, but many times it is paired with or substituted by acouncil of elders.

An aerugo settlement will never grow to a great size, norwill it be centuries old, as these moth-folk love to travel andsee new sights. Also, being their villages entirely built fromwood, leaves and their own silk, they aren't able to withstandthe test of time.

Moth-like Lives

Aerugo are born as larvae, but unlike butterflies they do notwander around as caterpillars before metamorphing intotheir adult form: they instead dig a hole into the ground,where they will make a cocoon and then turn into youngaerugo, already capable of walking and flying. There isusually a common "cocoon ground" in each aerugosettlement, where parents leave their young larvae, waitingfor them to turn into an adult moth. There is usually a shortceremony that precedes this.

Because of this tradition, aerugo aren't able to recognizetheir own children, and young moths are usually brought upeither by a small group of adult aerugo (which becomes theirfamily) or by the whole settlement itself (making at timeslittle difference, as aerugo settlements are quite small).In either case, an aerugo usually feels a way stronger tiewith his community as a whole than to his "family" itself, andwill often try to keep connected with it, using various kinds ofmessangers, ranging from travelers to butterflies.

Skilled Weavers of Silvery Ribbons

Aerugo are able to produce a silky, silvery substance thanksto some glands inside their mouths, which they then weavewith great skill and expertise. Aerugo silk, which is both softand strong, is highly valued among other races, and can fetcha high price at the right merchant.

Although this silk would naturally have a wonderful silverycolour, it is possible to dye it. If submerged in dye right after ithas been produced, it will quickly absorb the colour and keepit almost forever, taking many decades to fade.

Night Wanderers, Seekers of Grace

Even if they do form stable settlements, an aerugo will rarelylive his whole life only within its borders: driven by aninexplicable curiosity, and particulartly by a desire to searchfor beauty, it will wander in the night, guided by the pale andreassuring light of the moon.

When searching for something beautiful, an aerugo willrarely head thowards human towns or cities. Rather than forartificial forms of art, it will look for the ones that are withinnature, such as in a great waterfall or a colorful aurora.It does occasionally happen though that an aerugo mightprefer a statue to a dawn. In that case, he will travel from onecity to another, often following a caravan of merchants ortravelers, as this moth-folk appreciate the company of others,and will start thinking of them as part of their "family" if theyearn their trust and friendship.

Young aerugo are the ones that are easier to findwandering the nights, as with old age they'll settle in a villagewith others of their kin, or more rarely in human cities. Thisdoes not mean that they'll stop travelling: an old aerugo willstill head out from time to time, in search of a beautiful sight,and come back home a few days later.

Aerugo personality

Even if aerugo can adapt to human society, they will neverlose some of the characteristics they share with moths,resulting in them often standing out from the common crowdbecause of this (as if a pair of wings and four arms weren'tenough) .

You can use the aerugo Quirks table to determine apersonality quirk for an aerugo character or to inspire aunique mannerism.

Aerugo Quirks

d8 Quirk

1 You hate all kinds of artificial light, the only one youappreciate being that of the sun, the moon or thestars.

2 Artificial lights charm you as much as the ones of themoon or the stars. You can often be found staring at atorch or a lantern, bewitched.

3 Common sleep schedules aren't your thing: you alwaystry to convince your companions to sleep during theday and travel at night.

4 You always leave a thin silky string wherever you go.

5 When nervous you start fiddling with your antennae.

6 You're easily angered when you see someonemistreating any kind of insect.

7 When talking, expecially when using Mothspeech, yoursecond pair of arms expressively gestures on its own.Some of those gestures may be incomprehensible toother people than you though.

8 You carry some butterflies or other insects with you,and sometimes chat with them. Other people usuallydon't notice this, and think you are talking to yourself.

Aerugo Names

Aerugo are given a name by the community they live in,resulting usually in a name in Mothspeech and one inCommon, which is used by all other races when referring tothem. Those names are usually one or two syllables long,with a prevalence of vowels and usually no harsh consonants.There is no distinction between male and female names.

Aerugo names: Ausi, Dei, Eli, Fee, Inuue, Laenne, Leesha,Nae, Ofee, Ool, Phii, Pula, Sesi, Siio, Uumon, Wetha

Aerugo Traits

Your aerugo character has a variety of natural abilities, butwho cares you'll never read these two lines.

Ability score increase. Your Dexterity score increases by2, and your Intelligence score increases by 1.

Age. Aerugo larvae mature into moths after around tenmonths, at which point they show the physical and mentalage of a three-years-old human child. They mature at age 15,and are known to live up to 90 years.

Alignment. Aerugo tend towards chaotic alignments, asthey grow with little amount of rules to bind them and,experiencing various cultures through their travels, theycreate their own set of moral laws.

They almost never fall into evil alignments, as they respectother cultures and treasure the company of other people andthe beauty of the world.

Size. Aerugo range in height from barely 4 feet to morethan 6 feet tall. Regardless of your position in that range, yoursize is Medium.

Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet.

Moth wings. Your moth wings grant you a flying speed of20 feet. To be able to use this speed, you mustn't be wearingheavy or medium armour.

Darkvision. Accustomed at having the moon as the onlylight in your days, you have superior vision in dark and dimconditions. You can see in dim light within 60 feet of you as ifit were bright light, and in darkness as if it were dim light.You can't discern color in darkness, only shades of gray.

Sensible antennae. Thanks to your long antennae youhave advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely onsmell.

Light susceptibility. You are not accustomed to strongartificial lights, which distract you and impede you fromfocusing on your targets. You have disadvantage on attackrolls and Wisdom (Perception) checks when you are within20 feet of a source of bright light that you can see, unless theobject that spreads bright light is your target itself

Modified Artwork

All the artworks you see in this homebrew document have been modified by the writer (through GIMP) in order to better fit the aspectof the Aerugo, and therefore are not the original ones.Keep this in mind when considering some of the possibledefects they may present.

Extra limbs. You have a second pair of arms, which aresmaller and weaker than your normal arms, but that can stillcarry out tasks with precision. Those arms can't wieldweapons or shields, nor perform somatic components ofspells, but can hold and use a spellcasting focus or any othersmall object, weighting up to 3 times your Strenght score.As a bonus action on your turn, you can use your extralimbs to interact with one additional object or feature of theEnvironment during either your movement or action (asdescribed in page 190 in the PHB).

Weaver of silk. You gain proficiency with the Weaver'stools. Also, you can use you action to produce up to 5 feet of athin, silky thread. In order to do that, your mouth and two ofyour hands must be free (you can use your secondary armsfor this action) . The amount of silk you can produce is anumber of feet equal to 5 times your Constitution score.Once you have produced the maximum length of silk, youcan't produce any more until you finish a long rest.. Thethread produced in this way is thin and breaks easily, but youcan use some weaver's tool to make cloth out of it, which isinstead warm, comfortable and resistant.

Languages. You can speak, read and write Common andMothspeech. Mothspeech is mainly a language of transmittedpherormones, with few body language, and because of this itcan't be written. Also, it is impossible for other creaturesbesides moths, butterflies or aerugo to comprehend thislanguage (although it is possible with magic), and many won'teven notice when you use it. Using Mothspeech, you cancommunicate simple ideas to moths and butterflies, andunderstand their "speach". Because of the limited vocabularyof this language, most aerugo speak through bothMothspeech and Common.

Weaving the silk

Here you can find a table describing how muchthread you need in order to be able to weavevarious objects

Feet of Thread Required Object

250 Clothes, common

250 Clothes, travel

280 Clothes, fine

180 Blanket, 5 feet by 5 feet

20 Pouch

200 Rope, silk (50 feet)