BejukBejuk
The sights (and scents) of bejuk caravans are not easily
ignored. Horned and antlered humanoids with bestial eyes
and ears ride atop fantastic animals, each decorated with
trinkets, dyes, and other adornments that celebrate bejuk
aesthetics. Once a caravan stops at a city to trade goods and
information, young bejuks feed and clean the mounts while
the adults handle transactions until they all quietly pack up
and move on. They do not own land, nor do they wish to do
so: their caravan holds all their needs and treasures.
Silken RoadsSilken Roads
Migration is a necessity for the bejuk. They seek to collect all
beautiful things that the world and its races have to offer.
This goes for their beasts of burden as well, which they often
treat better than themselves. It is common to see a bejuk's
mount eating a more colorful meal than its rider. And while
bejuks can't digest meat, they are happy to hunt and provide
it for their carnivorous and omnivorous friends. This is made
all the more impressive after seeing that bejuk caravans hold
some of the largest beasts in the known world. If necessary,
bejuks will subsist on bark and grasses in order to feed them.
Bejuk NamesBejuk Names
The nomadic bejuks take great care in naming their children.
Many variables matter: the locations of celestial bodies at the
time of birth, the first animal to approach the newborn,
where the umbilical cord was cut, etc. It is exceedingly rare
for a bejuk to be named on their parents' whim alone.
Because family structures are loose and monogamy is rare,
bejuk surnames match the name of the community they hail
from. A two-letter "bridge" connects their given name to this
surname and expresses how long an individual has been
apart from their community. Therefore, an example of a full
bejuk name would be Itala sa Zerutz.
Male Names: Aldoi, Behera, Bilo, Dolo, Errepide, Fazati,
Giratoki, Helbura, Hodei, Ibilbaza, Jarle, Kathlo, Kuilu,
Lerro, Mortuko, Rafi, Sasoa, Tamani, Tegiko, Tikoa, Unitoa
Female Names: Abesti, Ahrea, Beltzae, Daia, Erdi, Hegaldi,
Ilargi, Itala, Kapena, Lehoi, Melu, Mendi, Miakatu, Nietu,
Panka, Rensugi, Serriko, Simaurra, Tzaile, Ubide, Xume
Bridges: co (still together), pe (less than a week), ji (less than
a month), bu (less than 4 months), sa (more than 4 months)
Community Names: Arrunt, Basoan, Bildum, Eskutitz,
Gutun, Hankak, Herrdoil, Izotz, Larruj, Lokaz, Migrad,
Munitat, Oinez, Oihanean, Yo-an, Zerutz, Zikinkerit
Bejuk TraitsBejuk Traits
Any bejuk character you make will have the following traits in
common with the other members of their race.
Ability Score Increase. Your Wisdom score increases by
1, and a different ability score of your choice increases by 2. A
bejuk is always expected to become the apprentice of a crafts-
person, hunter, trader, lorekeeper, scout, warrior, or caretaker
so that their abilities can be specialized by their early 20s.
Age. Bejuk mature in their early teens and live a bit over a
century, typically between 125 and 135 years.
Alignment. Most bejuk cultures preach social neutrality as
a virtue. The fact that they interact with as many races as
they can further reinforces it as a necessity. Even if a bejuk
becomes evil, lawful, good, or chaotic, they will usually keep
some attributes of their neutral upbringing.
Size. Bejuk heights vary greatly between 5 and 7 feet tall,
and shorter ones are known to have larger horns, on average.
Regardless of your specific dimensions, your size is Medium.
Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet.
Baubles. You have proficiency with your choice of jeweler's
tools, weaver's tools, or woodcarver's tools. Using these tools,
you can spend 1 hour and 2 sp worth of raw materials to craft
a Tiny bauble worth 3 sp, such as a string of beads, a clothing
patch, or an earring. If a creature willingly accepts one of
these baubles from you as a gift, you gain advantage on the
first Charisma check you make to influence that creature
within the next minute. You can gain this benefit no more
than once per day per creature.
Herd's Resolve. While you are within 20 feet of a friendly
creature that isn't incapacitated, you have advantage on
saving throws against being frightened. Additionally, when a
creature within 20 feet of you makes a saving throw against
being frightened, you can use your reaction to grant it
advantage on the roll.
Stotting. When you make a standing long or high jump,
you jump as if you had made a running start. Additionally,
your jump height is doubled, which often helps with mounting
creatures that are much larger than you.
Tamer's Touch. You have proficiency in the Animal Hand-
ling skill. Additionally, you can cast animal friendship using
this trait. Once you cast it, you can't do so again until you
finish a long rest. Wisdom is your spellcasting ability for it.
Languages. You know how to speak, read, and write
Common, Bejuk, and two other standard languages of your
choice. Most people hear the Bejuk tongue as a gibberish
dialect of Common. In reality, it is a sublanguage composed
of idioms, metaphors, slang, and other figures of speech that
require months of daily exposure to understand fully.
BEJUK RACE OVERVIEW 45
Racial FeatsRacial Feats
The following feats are meant to expand on the uniqueness of
the bejuk race and allow players to further customize their
characters. Your DM has the final say in whether any of these
feats can be used in a campaign.
Charger+Charger+
Prerequisite: Bejuk
When you use your action to Dash, you can use a bonus
action to make one melee weapon attack or to shove a
creature. If you can make multiple attacks with the Attack
action, you can choose to make one melee weapon attack and
to shove the attack's target as part of the same bonus action.
If you move at least 10 feet in a straight line immediately
before taking this bonus action, you gain a +5 bonus to the
attack's damage roll (if you chose to make a melee attack and
hit) and/or push the target up to 10 feet away from you (if you
chose to shove and you succeed).
Keen SensesKeen Senses
Prerequisite: Bejuk
Even among your bestial peers, you stand out as a gifted
scout and seeker. You gain the following benefits:
You have advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that
rely on hearing, sight, or smell.
You gain darkvision out to a range of 30 feet. You can see
in dim light within this range as if it were bright light, and
in darkness as if it were dim light. You can't discern color
in darkness, only shades of gray.
You can discern creatures that you are familiar with by
their scent. For example, you could realize that a creature
is disguised as long as you are familiar with either the
disguised creature or the creature it is disguised as.
CreditsCredits
Original Homebrew Content by Acenm5. Take the Survey.
Context: D&D 5th Edition by Wizards of the Coast, LLC.
Page 45 Art: Original Character - Sheep Girl by Lorena
Carricondo.
Page 46 Art: deer boy by Kaleidic ( Jasper).