Gremlins

A once proud race that migrated from their dangeroushomelands, now wandering salvagers without a home oftheir own. The gremlins struggle to establish themselves inthe world.

These small creatures are no strangers to war andstrife. Despite the natural dangers posed by their originalhomelands, neighboring factions sort to claim their uniqueresources. Many assumed the gremlins would be wipedout in a few years, but their size and ingenuity proved theworld wrong.

When nation fought nation on their scarred home, theywould stay out of sight, surviving by making a habit of pil-fering the many battlefields for material and tools. But thewars would not last. In the end the violence culminated ina cataclysmic event that fully destroyed the Gremlins homeand forced them to flee - they have been nomads ever since,spread thin across the world.

Because of their history, Gremlins keep themselvesdistant from other races. Many might find a gremlin to bedistrustful and stand offish, never settling down in otherplaces for long. Despite this the Gremlins share a collectivedream of one day having a home that they can call theirown once more.

InventIon from necessIty

Because of their past of war and scavenging, many aGremlins ancestor was exposed to tools they were nevermeant to use, and grew into a habit of cobbling thingsnot meant to fit together. A talent born from survival forcombing and rearranging unlikely material into workingtools and inventions. This history of improvisation quicklybecame a part of Gremlin culture.

These skills have been passed down and finely honed toan almost innate ability. For a Gremlin makes due with themost humble of scraps to great effect. As such, salvagingwhat other people have deemed unusable has become agreat strength, which gained them the unfortunate infamyof being seen as trash diggers and scroungers. Gremlins areoften found in derelict sites or trash heaps filled with freematerial for them to work with.

A nose for mAgIc

The ancient ancestors of the Gremlins, distant cousins ofthe goblins, were curious beings but dull of the mind, bare-ly above common fauna. However, the unique resources oftheir homelands were magically infused minerals occasion-ally revealed by the soil and tucked away in crevices. Theproto gremlins sometimes came upon these ‘shiny rocks’and would attempt to consume them. This diet becameoddily beneficial to the humble gremlin, and kick startedan evolutionary change. They developed magic senses intheir nose and taste buds, allowing them to reliably findmore precious minerals. This ability to sense magic alsohelped them avoid magical threats that were innate to theirhomelands. Over time, the ancient gremlins evolved intothe smart and innovative creatures they are today.

Gremlins have never been strangers to the chaos but thereare some of them that actively seek it. This can vary fromharmless mischief to outright sabotage. Though their ac-tions do not help their poor reputation, Gremlins find theiractions more thrill and fun seeking then bad, looking torelieve stress and enjoy the world in their own chaotic way.This does not mean their actions are always in jest howev-er, as they are also more likely to seek retribution to thosewho wrong them, or remind them of the forces that ruinedtheir homelands. Be it for good or evil, anarchy reigns.

PersonAlIty

The Gremlins are not known to be very friendly withother races. Distrusting, standoffish, socially inept, If theyare not traveling in groups with other Gremlins, they stickto themselves as hermits. Even if several Gremlins occupythe same community, they will often compete with eachother for resources.

It is hard to gain trust, but once the trust is formed witha Gremlin it is an unbreakable lifelong bond. While theyare not emotionally intelligent, their bonds are deep andgenuine. But do not expect them to be vocally sentimental,actions mean more than words.

PhysIology

The gremlin shares ancestry with the common goblin.But with the exception of their diminutive size and largeears, they have little in common. Gremlins are covered inshort-thin fur, commonly blue-adjacent with green or pur-ple hues in the spectrum.They have a prehensile thin longthin tail with a fur-tip, and large almost cat-like eyes.

GremlIn nAmes

Gremlin names are short and snappy to keep them effi-cient. No one has time for a multi-syllable name. They alsolike using names based on tools or simple onomatopeyas.Last names are not common as gremlins usually travel insmall groups. But they might further identify themselves bygroup, which they commonly call ‘crews’.

Female names:Asch, Brix, Calli, Dyna, Effy, Fuse, Geema, Harpyr,Impa, Joell, Kindle, Lokke, Monkee, Nails, Ovah, Ply, Que,Rosi, Snips, Tility, Unnu, Vel, Wylda, Xera, Yeet, Zinc

Male names:Arty, Bolt, Clank, Dabb, Edge, Fogger, Gurt, Hux, Iggy,Jakk, Knievel, Linx, Molto, Nyle, Ozzy, Poik, Qolt, Ratchet,Scruff, Torb, Urzok, Vence, Wyse, Xeff, Ygor, Zane

GremlIn trAIts

As a gremlin you possess innate abilities that helped yourancestors flourish and ensured your continued survival after thedestruction of your homelands.

Ability Score Increase. Your Dexterity score and Intelligencescores each increase by 1.

Age. Gremlins reach adulthood around age 8. They rarely liveto past 60 due to external circumstances, but naturally they canlive longer than 200 years.

Alignment. Gremlins are inclined to lean towards chaoticalignments, due to their nomadic nature and their discordantpenchant.

Size. Gremlins grow up to 3 feet tall. Your size is small.

Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet.

Languages. You can speak, read, and write Common, Goblin,and one additional language of your choice. It is not uncommonfor Gremlins pick up different languages as they travel.

Gadgeteer. You gain proficiency with a tool of your choice.

Magic Sense. You are aware if a magic item, or a magicaleffect is within 30 ft. Of yourself by smell and you can determineif an item is magical by smell and taste. You can spend 10 minutesinteracting and handling an unidentified magic item and learn itsproperties, how to use it, and if it requires attunement.

Inventive Mind. You can spend 1 minute of uninterruptedwork to create an improvised artisan tool that is not alchemist’ssupplies, or set of thieve’s tools. To do so, you must have access tomaterial, such as scrap metal and bones. The tool holds togetherfor one hour or until used, after which the tool will break andbecomes unusable.

Survival Philiosophy. Different schools of mind on howto make it are found among Gremlins across the world. Each ofthese philosophies discribe how you as a Gremlin carve out a pathfor yourself in this world. Choose one of the following; Ingenuity,and Trickery.

IngenuItyYou prefer to use your intelligence for problem solving, beingconvinced that the right idea is the key to any issue. Occasionallyyou show unrivaled moments of inventiveness and critical think-ing capabilities thanks to your finely honed mind.

Ability Score Increase. Your Intelligence score increases by1.

Booksmart. You are proficient in one of the following skills:Arcana, History, Investigation.

Moment of Ingenuity. When push comes to shove yourmind works overtime to find a solution for your current predica-ment. When you fail an attack roll, ability check, or saving throw,you can add your proficiency bonus to the result, which may causethe roll to become a success. Once you use this feature, you can’tuse it again until you have finished a short or long rest.

Brilliant Utilisation. When using a tool you can make anIntelligence check in place of another ability score for any task.

TrIckery

You have chosen a more anarchic approach to living bycreating opportunities via the foolishness and downfall of others.Daring and bold, you usually target powerful forces for biggerrewards. There is little satisfaction or benefit in targeting thealready downtrodden.

Ability Score Increase. Your Dexterity score increases by 1.

Cunning. You are proficient in one of the following skills:Acrobatics, Desception, Sleight of Hand, Stealth.

Scram. When you fail a Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) check, acreature makes a successful Wisdom (Perception) check to detectyou, or you fail a Charisma (Deception) check to deceive anothercreature, you can use a reaction to move up to your speed withoutprovoking opportunity attacks. To use this trait, you must see thecreature when it detects you or sees through your deception.

Throwing Arm. You are proficient with thrown improvisedweapons and if the improvised weapon weighs 1 lb. Or less, youtreat the weapon as if it has the finesse trait.

GremlIn unIque feAts

Gremlin characters have access to unique feats whenthey level up in a class. Some DMs allow the use of feats tofurther customize a character, see chapter 6, “Customiza-tion Options”, of the Player’s Handbook.

The following special feats allow your character to ex-pand upon their innate abilities, as each feat represents anevolution of your character’s nature and traits. 

Escape Artist

Prerequisite: Gremlin (Trickery), Dexterity 13 or higher

Staying out of harm’s way is as natural to you as breathingand it is impossible to pin you down. You gain the follow-ing benefits:

• Increase your Dexterity by 1, to a maximum of 20.

• When you become grappled or restrained, you can usea reaction to attempt to escape if the effect allows toescape with a successful ability check.

• When an effect allows you to make a Strength checkto escape a grapple or restraint effect, you can use yourDexterity instead. Additionally you add your profi-ciency modifier to any check to escape a grapple orrestraint.

• You can move through spaces of creatures one sizelarger than yourself.

WounD uP

Prerequisite: Gremlin

Your companions might call you jumpy or twitchy, youprefer calling yourself always prepared. At the slightest signof trouble, you are ready for action. You gain the followingbenefits:

• When you roll for initiative you can use a reaction tomove up to half of your speed, draw up to two weap-ons or objects, or don a shield.

• During the first round of combat your movementspeed is increased by 10 ft. And you have advantage onall Dexterity saving throws.

• When you are reduced to 0 hit points you can use areaction to move up to your speed without provokingopportunity attacks before you fall unconcious.

J ury rIg

Prerequisite: Gremlin, Proficiency with tinker tools

Small modifications to equipment go a far way. An ad-ditional blade here, an additional piece of padding there,and there is nothing that you can’t handle. You gain thefollowing benefit:

• Over the course of a short or long rest you can useyour tinker tools to improve a suit of nonmagical ar-mor, a nonmagical shield, or a nonmagical weapon. Atthe end of the rest the piece of equipment is improved.If it is a piece of armor, whenever the creature takesbludgeoning, piercing, or slashing damage the damageis reduced by 2. If it is a shield it grants an additional+1 bonus to AC. If it is a weapon it has a +1 bonus toattack and damage. A piece of equipment can only haveone improvement at once. The improvement lasts un-til the piece of equipment was either extensively used(DM’s discretion), or until the end of the next combat.

TActIcAl genIus

Prerequisite: Gremlin (Ingenuity), Intelligence 13 or higher

For you, combat has become nothing more than a complexpuzzle for you to solve. You gain the following benefits:

• Increase your Intelligence by 1, to a maximum of 20.

• When you roll initiative you can use your Intelligencemodifier in place of your Dexterity modifier.

• You can use your Moment of Ingenuity feature togrant an allied creature that you can see within 30 ft.of yourself a bonus equal to your proficiency bonusto a failed ability check, attack roll, or saving throw,potentially turning a failure into a success. To do soyou must share at least one language with the creatureand it must be able to hear you.

TrIckeryYou have chosen a more anarchic approach to living bycreating opportunities via the foolishness and downfall of others.Daring and bold, you usually target powerful forces for biggerrewards. There is little satisfaction or benefit in targeting thealready downtrodden.Ability Score Increase. Your Dexterity score increases by 1.Cunning. You are proficient in one of the following skills:Acrobatics, Desception, Sleight of Hand, Stealth.Scram. When you fail a Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) check, acreature makes a successful Wisdom (Perception) check to detectyou, or you fail a Charisma (Deception) check to deceive anothercreature, you can use a reaction to move up to your speed withoutprovoking opportunity attacks. To use this trait, you must see thecreature when it detects you or sees through your deception.Throwing Arm. You are proficient with thrown improvisedweapons and if the improvised weapon weighs 1 lb. Or less, youtreat the weapon as if it has the finesse trait.gremlIn unIque feAtsGremlin characters have access to unique feats whenthey level up in a class. Some DMs allow the use of feats tofurther customize a character, see chapter 6, “Customiza-tion Options”, of the Player’s Handbook.The following special feats allow your character to ex-pand upon their innate abilities, as each feat represents anevolution of your character’s nature and traits. 