Oniborne

On an exterior wall, above a dingy tavern door,
rotten from rain and time, a sign was plastered:

“NO ONI”

I hesitated, turning to Yaboku, who met my eyes
with a smile.
“I’m not allowed through this door,” he chuckled,
“But I can make my own.” His hand curled into a
fist and, with a single blow, the tavern wall burst
open, the sign falling to the mud at his feet.
— Ryoko’s Diary
Oniborne (OH-nee-born) are descendants of yokai, vessels

of impetuous, simmering power that manifests across gen-
erations. Saturated in magic, oniborne innately command

primal, supernatural forces. An oniborne’s retort may phys-
ically scold the body of a foe, flesh might reknit under their

palms in moments of compassion, or they may physically
shrink when gripped with terror.

Children of Darkness
The life of an oniborne is one plagued by fear and suspicion.
Being descendants of the oni, grotesque and dangerous
yokai, many humanoids view oniborne as savage, ugly,
and cruel—more akin to demons than their fey ancestors.
These are ancient stereotypes, passed from parent to child
in bedtime tales of terror. All oniborne, be they virtuous or
villainous, suffer under this crude prejudice.
A Deeper Experience
Oniborne reverberate with magic in a way unlike any other
race. In the legendary words of Khal Oni: “We simply feel

more”. Be it the blood rage of warfare or the serene tran-
quillity of meditation, oniborne revel in the full gamut of

life’s experiences. For this reason, many oniborne are drawn
to thrilling, high-risk lifestyles, often becoming big game
hunters, soldiers of fortune, or travelling performers.
Oniborne Traits
As an oniborne, you have the following traits:
Ability Score Increase. Your Constitution score increases
by 2.
Age. Oniborne reach maturity at around 21 years of age
and have long lives, often living up to 400 years.
Size. An oniborne stands between 5 and 7 feet tall. Your
size is Medium.

11
RYOKO’S GUIDE TO THE YOKAI REALMS | ONIBORNE

Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet.
Powerful Build. You count as one size larger when
determining your carrying capacity and the weight you can
push, drag, or lift.
Languages. You can speak, read, and write Common and
one other language of your choice.
Subrace. Oniborne exist in many forms. The most
striking difference between oniborne types is their colour.
Choose one of these subraces.
Red Oniborne
Red oniborne are great storytellers, taking delight in fireside
tales of deadly beasts, fiery passions, and ancient marvels of

the world. The most sociable of the three oniborne heritag-
es, many red oniborne journey the world sharing time-worn

tales of adventure while forging their own.
On the cusp of adulthood, red oniborne leave their
troop to undertake the Rite of the Hunt. They venture into
the wilderness armed with nothing more than their wits
in a quest to slay a dangerous foe and craft a weapon from
its body. This rite remains an essential foundation of red
oniborne culture across their lives; the more deadly the prey,

the greater the respect an oniborne gains. It is not uncom-
mon to see troop elders proudly clad in pelts and wielding

weapons hewn from the remains of chromatic dragons and
other vanquished terrors.
Ability Score Increase. Your Wisdom score increases by 1.

Daunting Stature. You have proficiency in the Intimida-
tion skill.

Magical Craft. You gain proficiency with one type of ar-
tisan’s tools of your choice. In addition, if you craft a weap-
on from the body of an enemy you have slain (at the GM’s

discretion), that object becomes a magic weapon that gives
you a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls you make with
it. This bonus increases to +2 at 9th level and +3 at 17th
level. The weapon is only magical for you, and in anyone
else’s hands it functions as a normal, nonmagical weapon.
When you craft a weapon in this way, all other weapons
you have used this feature to craft become nonmagical.
Weeping Magic. You know the prestidigitation cantrip.
Starting at 3rd level, you can cast cure wounds with this
trait. Starting at 5th level, you can also cast enhance ability
with this trait. Once you cast cure wounds or enhance ability
with this trait, you can’t cast that spell with it again until
you finish a long rest. You can also cast either of those spells

using any spell slots you have of the appropriate level. Intel-
ligence, Wisdom, or Charisma is your spellcasting ability for

these spells when you cast them with this trait (choose when
you select this race).
Tears form at the corner of your eyes when you cast a
spell using this trait.

Blue Oniborne

The magic of the blue oniborne is subtle and primal, a sing-
ing river of energy that ripples through the body. It can be

relayed through physical contact, a healing stream imparted
by a gentle touch, or a crushing wave that surges through
their biting jaws.
A solitary people, most blue oniborne choose to remain
with their troop across their lives, a peaceful existence of
isolation and independence. The few blue oniborne blessed
with an adventurous spirit are unlikely to find kin in the
wider world. They must journey without the guidance of
their troop, every path an unmapped wilderness.
Ability Score Increase. Your Strength score increases by 1.
Great Deceiver. You have proficiency in the Deception
skill.
Compassionate Heart. The aid of a blue oniborne is an
act of great selflessness imbued with powerful magic. When
you take the Help action, you can spend one of your Hit
Dice to empower an ally within 5 feet of you, channelling
your magic into their body. That creature gains temporary

hit points equal to one roll of that die plus your Constitu-
tion modifier. You can use this trait a number of times equal

to your proficiency bonus, and you regain all expended uses
when you finish a long rest.
Crunching Maw. You have vicious teeth and a strong
jaw that you can use to make unarmed strikes. When you
hit with it, the strike deals piercing damage equal to 1d6 +
your Strength modifier, instead of the bludgeoning damage
normal for an unarmed strike.
Savage Bite. As a reaction when you take damage from a
creature within 5 feet of you, you can magically enlarge your
jaw and lash out with a vicious bite. Make an unarmed strike
using your Crunching Maw against that creature. This attack
scores a critical hit on a roll of 18-20 on the d20. You can use
this trait a number of times equal to your proficiency bonus,
and you regain all expended uses when you finish a long rest.
Green Oniborne

Preferring warm, arid climates, green oniborne are typical-
ly a nomadic people. They chase the gentle warmth of an

eternal summer, ever migrating as they wander between
orchards, pastures, and oases on a time-worn path passed
down across the generations.
Widely renowned as great orators, green oniborne speak
in hammering rhythm, a staccato avalanche of stories, ideas,
and possibilities. Their spellcasting is equally animated;
green oniborne are the most overtly magical among their
cousins. The air fizzes as they gesture and articulate, their

eyes shimmer with light, and their words sparkle with mag-
ical inflection.

Ability Score Increase. Your Charisma score increases by 1.

Art: Ognjen Sporin © Ryoko’s Guide to the Yokai Realms
The space immediately around you grows warm and
humid when you cast a spell using this trait.
Ghastly Visage. After you take the Attack action on
your turn, you can use a bonus action to try and magically
frighten a creature within 5 feet of you. That creature must

make a Wisdom saving throw (DC = 8 + your Constitu-
tion modifier + your proficiency bonus) or be frightened of

you for 1 minute. If the target ends its turn more than 30
feet away from you, it can repeat this saving throw, ending
the effect on a success. You can use this trait a number of
times equal to your proficiency bonus, and you regain all
expended uses when you finish a long rest.