Vect

Very gradually, by degrees, pale blue hues invadethe quiet of night, and Hammerer knows that only a few hoursremain until dawn. Throughout the afternoon, evening, andnight, he has meticulously inspected his tools, a wide array ofmallets, sledges, and, of course, hammers, cleaning them,performing repairs, and organizing them by size and by color,only powering down for a few hours in the middle of the night.Through the walls of his workshop, Hammerer can see theheat signatures of people waking up and preparing breakfast;he performs a similar ritual, polishing his chassis and runningdiagnostics for the day ahead. Mentally, he has a checklist ofduties and chores before he begins the day’s work.Finally, the clocks strike seven, and Hammerer leaves hishome, a room barely ten feet square, and heads out into thetown. Somewhere in the market, a child cries for his mother tobuy him a toy, and Hammerer puzzles at this behavior; work,after all, is far more interesting than frivolity.- A typical morning for Hammerer, a vect craftsmanLiving constructs designed by dwarves as laborers, the vectare now free to search for meaning across the width of the'verse.

Evolved Golems

The vect were preceded by unthinking golems of variousdesigns but, though they are still constructed rather thanborn, they are now fully living beings. Underneath theirarmored exteriors lies an organically-influenced anatomy,with a circulatory system crafted from leather piping and anetwork of magic nerves. At the core of each vect unit is aneverlasting construct core, tinged with the influence of the

Spark that awoke them.

Vect bodies are humanoid in shape, but unmistakablymechanical, with large air intakes, protectiveshoulderplates, toothless jaws, and glowing mechanicaleyes. Though each of the Foundries produces its vect inslightly unique proportions, the general shape is always thesame, and vect can normally scavenge spare parts from thedeceased if they are ever grievously injured. In fact, manyvect choose to install specially-designed embeddedcomponents to improve their bodies, up to and includingreplacing limbs with appropriate tools. If a vect unit ispreparing for a dangerous journey, their preparation willlikely include purchasing embedded components asreplacement parts.

Vect can work tirelessly and never need to sleep, insteadentering a dreamless period of inactivation each day. Mostvect create endless lists of goals and chores, taking comfortin the sequence and monotony of tasks to break up theendless march of days, weeks, and months. It is notuncommon to see a vect standing watch over his party,sharpening tools and repairing armor while the others sleep.

Mechanical Minds

Although vect units experience the same fear, anger, pain,loss, and other emotions that humanoids do, theirexpression of them is muted. Neither do their mechanicalfaces and harsh, metallic voices endear themselves, drivinga wedge between vect and most other living things. Manyvect, therefore, seek refuge in logical thinking. Somebecome emotionally distant and lack introspection, whereasothers plumb the philosophies of existence and considerwhat it means to be alive. These become the two extremes,between vect who seek to embrace their status as livingthings, and those who wish to banish all within themselvesthat is not construct. The vast majority of vect existbetween these extremes.

Vect are most comfortable existing within a small groupof some kind, as long as it is dedicated to a purpose.Temples, adventuring parties, and voyages of explorationare deeply attractive to the vect.

Search for Meaning

All vect are keenly aware that they were once nonlivingmaterial which suddenly came to be fully-formed as aliving thing. And while there is no doubt that vect are alive,the destination of their souls upon death is another matterentirely. The philosophical implications of this are not loston them, and the questions of existence echo loudly insidesome vect.

Though the Foundries are intelligent beyond measure,they are wordless in their duties, and ascribe no grandmeaning to their creations.

Some vect find comfort in faith, normally worshippinggods of arcana, smiths, and constructs. Others seekpermanent distraction in quests and chores. Others still lookto the 'verse for answers, and seek meaning throughunderstanding.

Vect Names

The original vect were divided into working groups andgiven numbers by their dwarven keepers; nothing more wasnecessary. Now, however, all vect choose their own names,usually designations reflecting some function or purpose,though some vect choose to be identified by their serialnumber, or a nickname given to them by others.

Vect Names. 176, Armory, Bolts, Clunk, Crusher, Glitch,Hammerer, Keeper, Lifter, Null, Phong, Scarce, Three-Four-Three, Titan, Unit Seventeen, Watcher

Vect Traits

Your mechanical body is driven by an inexhaustibleconstruct core, and has the following traits:

Ability Score Increase. Your Constitution scoreincreases by 2.

Reconfigurable Ability Score Increase. One abilityscore of your choice increases by 1 and you can change thisselection whenever you finish a long rest. You can'tincrease Constitution using this trait and you can't increaseany ability score above 20.

Age. With the proper replacement parts and activities tooccupy yourself, you can conceivably exist indefinitely.The vect are known to degrade and lose their sanity,however, if they live too long without an explicit purpose.It is not known if this insanity visits all vect at old ages, orjust those whose resolve wavers.

Alignment. Vect possess mechanical minds, which findlogic comforting. Generally, vect are lawful.

Size. As constructs built by massive forges, the vectcould conceivably be perfectly uniform, like the golemsthat preceded them. However, the Foundries are eitherinherently flawed, or otherwise have a fondness for makingdiverse vect units, for each created vect is in some wayunique. Vect units stand between 5 and 7 feet tall andaverage about 150 to 300 pounds. Your size is Medium.

Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet.

Thermal Vision. You can use a bonus action on your turnto switch from your normal vision to heat-detecting thermalvision or back again. Your thermal vision can see 20 feetthrough darkness and heavily obscured conditions, but youare blind beyond this radius. You can't discern color withyour thermal vision, nor can you see through invisibility,illusions, or magical darkness. This vision penetrates mostmaterials, but is blocked by any one-inch barrier.

Construct Anatomy. Even though you were constructed,you are a living creature. You are immune to nonmagicaldiseases. You do not need to eat or breathe, but you caningest food and drink if you wish.

You have advantage on saving throws you make againstexhaustion.

Instead of sleeping, you enter an inactive state for 4hours each day. You do not dream in this state; you arefully aware of your surroundings and notice approachingenemies and other events as normal. You can still be placedinto a torpor by sleep-inducing magic.

Inflexible Mind. Your mechanical mind is inherentlylogical, and is not easily swayed. You have advantage onsaving throws against being charmed.

Embedded Armor. You can embed special armorplating directly onto your metal body. Installing oruninstalling this embedded armor requires 1 hour of work,and occupies the same place on your body as armornormally would; you can't wear conventional armor whileyou have embedded armor installed. This armor also takesthe External slot for your vect components.

At 1st level, you choose one of the following types ofembedded armor, though you can install other types if youacquire them in the world.

Velocity Plating. Your movement speed increases by 5 feetand your jump distance increases by 5 feet.

Composite Plating. Your Armor Class equals 13 + yourDexterity modifier.

Juggernaut Plating. Your Armor Class equals 16. You canonly install this embedded armor if you are proficientwith heavy armor.

Languages. You can speak, read, and write Common.